Hello everyone and welcome to lecture on quicksort.
So in this lecture we'll get an explanation of quicksort.
Look at some visualizations of quicksort and in the next lecture what we're going to do a full implementation
Python of the quicksort algorithm.
So to formally described the quicksort but the quicksort uses is divide and conquer to gain the same
advantages as the merge sort.
But not using additional storage as a tradeoff.
However it is possible that the list may not be divided in half so when this happens we're going to
see that performance is actually diminished.
So a quicksort what it's going to do is it first selects a value just called the pivot value the role
the pivot value is to assist with splitting the list.
The actual position or the pivot value belongs in the final sorted list commonly called that split point
is going to be used to divide the list for subsequent calls.
The quick sort.
So let's go ahead and try to look at a diagram to explain this.
So here we have this disarray which has 54 26 83 17 etc. and 54 right here this first element is going
to be our first pivot value.
So the partition process is what's going to happen next.
It will find the split point and at the same time move other items to the appropriate side of the list
either less than or greater than that pivot value.
So 54 is our first pivot value.
So we're going to do is we have all the steps marked down throughout this large diagram here.
So we're going to look at each of these and go through it step by step.
So let's go ahead and jump to that touch first.
OK.
So here are the top three steps out of that array and sorting using quicksort.
So we have 50 for our pivot value and then we're going to have as a left Mark and a right Mark.
And these are actually going to converge on the split point as they go closer to the middle.
So we have that pivot value and we had the left Mark at 26.
So since 26 is less than 54 that left Mark moves to the right then since 93 is greater than 54 we stop
then the right mark is going to say 20 is less than 50 54 stop and this is what's going to happen here
.
So we have that pivot value.
We noticed that we were able to stop on the all the way to the right since we had a number that was
less than that pit value and all the way to the left we have a number that's greater than that pit value
.
So the next step is actually exchanged these two values here.
So now the left marks at 20 and the right Mark has 93.
Then we continue moving the left Mark and the right mark.
So notice the left Mark kept moving 17 was less than 54.
So it moved one more 77 is greater than 54.
So the left Mark stopped and then this guy went to 55 on the right mark 55 is greater so than it moved
to 44 which is less than 54.
So now they're both stopped.
The left Mark has a number that's greater than the value of the right mark because that's less than
it.
So we're going to do another.
And so now what you'll notice is the right mark having moved over to 31 and the left Mark having moved
over to 77.
The right Mark is now less than the left Mark.
So he found there.
Well we call that split point.
So we do now is exchanged 54 that value and 31.
That right Mark.
So note that we're going until the right mark in the left Mark Cross.
So to continue this let's go ahead and take a look at some visualizations to try to get a better understanding
of this quick sort algorithm.
OK everyone.
So now we're here at the implementation of quicksort notebook and there's a sorting and searching folder
.
And if you scroll down a bit for resources for review you'll have the Wikipedia page the visual algo
and then another animation page.
So if we go ahead and click on the Wikipedia link will take us here to that Wikipedia for a quick sort
.
And you note that there's a bit of an animation here as well as a lot more information about quicksort
Another diagram here similar to the one that we were going over and you can see there has a left Mark
on the right mark although some people just think of it as one single marker going along.
And you can check out the different partition schemes here and implementation issues so I encourage
you if you're interested in a quick sort and more about that algorithm you can check out a lot more
information on the wiki page as far as visualizing you can either go to sorting algorithms that come
saurian ash algorithms that come and check out the quicksort and you can go ahead and see various visualizations
.
Look at these two marks as they're going similar to what we were doing before we that left Markin right
Mark meeting and then doing those splits along those partition points.
OK.
So again last resort to check out is this visual algo dot net sorting.
Go ahead and click quick here and then you can go ahead and visualize the sorting mechanism here they're
showing left and right marks a bit by color.
So if you notice here we're checking against seven as our pivot point.
So we're going along.
And in this case there won't be anything that's less than seven.
Lowest number here is seven.
It was mashed but not less than.
So we go out through this entire list and we actually take seven as the smallest number so that iterations
complete.
So the pivots now actually have a sort of position.
So when you put that number is going to be 43 we noted that we had a 23 that was less than 43.
And so now we're doing those splits that's almost the same as when the left and right Mark were meeting
each other.
OK.
So I encourage you to go ahead and check out this on visual.
I'll go ahead and pass this now.
And you can see that there's always some pseudo code here as well as an explanation of what's happening
.
So this Web super useful mixture in exploration mode to be able to explore and you can create and sort
various things as far as the arrays that you're going to be sorting through.
OK thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture where we're going to be implementing our own
quick search algorithm in Python.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture